## Final Project Assessment

## Self Assessment
I work on my final project on my own. This is a very challenging project for me as I have to create a full picture in my mind first, list all steps before I start the project. At the outset of the project, I decide to work on the NHL hockey game data even though I am not very familiar with hockey game, but I want to try something new to myself. I spend time on searching for data sets  and learning each column and get to know more hocky game. Then I clean the data. After cleaning the data, I work on the machine learning and dashboard. The biggest challenge for me was getting comfortable and familiar with using the many different skills that I have learned throughout this course. What made this difficult was that even with the more difficult modules, I were provided a layout and process/procedure and sample code. With this project, I had to navigate through many disciplines and integrate them cohesively so that our final analysis would work and provide me with as accurate as a result as I could without being given a template to work with. Because I didn't have any background in any of the tools we learned, it was a challenge to, in essence, create my own template and then apply everything I learned to analyze our data without specifically knowing exactly our results were expected to be. 

## Team Assesment
As I work on my own, I wiill skip the team asssesment.

## Summary of Project
This project analyzed NHL hocky game statistics.Compared to other sports, advanced statistics in Hockey are still in infancy. It has been suggested that the best models can only predict the winner 62% of the time due to variances in talent and "puck luck". I would like to believe feature engineering and a suitably trained model can account for some of this variance and beat this seemingly low target.
My goal is to determine if different types of shot, games  at home country or away and  some other key features during the games are correlated to win. 
I used Python, SQL, R, several machine learning algorithms to analyze and present  data and results. The machine learning techniques I used include Random Forest classifier, SVM and Logistic Regression Model. I was able to achieve 91.2% accuracy score using Logistic Regression Model for shot type analysis, 77.75% Accuracy using Support Vector Machines and 77.79% Accuracy using Logistic Regression Model in play analysis.
